In this tutorial, we'll start working with impact effects. The first thing we will do is
create a vfx component - an additional component that will be responsible for the weapon's special effect.
We will add it to the rifle class and to the projectile class. Name the component WeaponFXComponent
and create an additional directory in the weapon folder, call it components. We create a class.
We check that the path to the component is added by PublicIncludePaths. To activate Niagara in C ++ code,
we need to add a plug-in called Niagara. This is done PublicDependencyModuleNames
Let's build the project without starting the editor, so that all Niagara code is available in C ++
To do this, right-click on our project in the solution explorer and click build.
Go to the component we created and start adding the necessary functionality.
We'll start with a public function we'll call PlayImpactFX.
The function will have one parameter of type FHitInfo, this object contains all the information necessary
for the correct spawn of the effect: position in the world, normal and other parameters, which
we will use a little later in subsequent lessons. We also need a property with the effect
we want to spawn. Add the UPROPERTY macro, the category will be VFX.
Property is of type UNiagaraSystem. The type name speaks for itself. In this property, we
will install the Niagara system from the editor. Add a forward declaration of this class.
Go to the .cpp file. We create the body of the PlayImpactFX function and include the header file, which contains the
functions we need to spawn the Niagara system. The header file is called NiagaraFunctionLibrary.h
In this functional library there is a special static function that can
spawn a Niagara system into the world. It is called SpawnSystemAtLocation: the first parameter is
the world context object, we can pass this, or a pointer through GetWorld. The next parameter is
a pointer to the Niagara system. We use our property. Next is the location in the world.
We can get it from the HitResult object. The variable is called ImpactPoint, followed by orientation in space.
We'll use the ImpactNormal variable. This variable stores the normal.
And we create an object of type FRotator, calling the function of the FVector class - Rotation. Leave the rest of the parameters as default.
One of the important parameters is called AutoDestroy. It is set to true by default, that is,
after the Niagara system has finished animating, it will automatically be removed from the world.
If you go inside the function, you will notice that checks for a null pointer for the Niagara system
and the world exist inside this function, so we do not need to set them. Let's create a component in the rifle class.
Please note that we create it not in the base weapon class, but in a specific rifle class,
because in the launcher class we only have a logical hit and
its projectile object is directly responsible for collision damage . We create a property for the component.
We need a class constructor to create a component, so let's add one.
We create the BeginPlay function. In it, we will check that our component exists, we will make a check.
Add the class constructor to the .cpp file. Add the component header file.
And we create it in the class constructor.
Add BeginPlay.
Insert check.
Let's go to the MakeShot function.
Let me remind you that we do trace and, in case of a successful hit, the bBlockingHit variable becomes
equal to true. It was in this branch that the hit occurred, so we call the PlayImpactFX function here
and pass the HitResult object. We also comment on the debug line and debug sphere and similarly add the
VFX component to the projectile class. This shows the architectural power of the components.
We can add it both to the weapon and to some logical parts of the weapon, in this case to the projectile.
So far, we have only one function called in PlayImpactFX, so the advantage of this approach
may not be so noticeable, but from the next lesson we will see that creating a component was a
good idea. So, we add the creation of the component to the projectile constructor, we also add the header file.
And check. Projectile already has BeginPlay. A collision with an object of the external environment
takes place in the OnProjectileHit function. Therefore, we can add a special effect spawn to this function.
We will pass the Hit object, which came to us in the callback, to the function.
Compile.
Let's install our effects. Open up the rifle's blueprint, find the vfx category and set our
single BaseImpact effect. We do the same with projectile.
We start the game. We shoot and the particle system spawns in the place where we got.
The orientation of the particle system is incorrect. Let's change this directly in the emitter. Open BaseImpact.
The Add Velocity In Cone setting sets the cone in which we want to add velocities.
And this cone is not oriented correctly. We should have one on X, and zero on Z.
We start again, shoot. The system now spawns correctly along the normals that come in HitResultInfo.
Let's change the weapon to the launcher. When the projectile collides, the same particle system spawns.